I had discussions with one of the local historians of Resolving some time ago with a view of
one of miners memorial at Resolving. Four miners killed in local pits. When I say local
pits I meant specifically for pits surrounding the Resolving area and nowhere else. And all
the names on the memorial are from the basically from the Resolving area and some are from
outside the area but nevertheless they've been killed in local pits. There was a need to get
some detail from the local historian whose name was Mr Billy Downing and he researched the names,
the dates when they were killed and where they were killed. On top of that and he researched
the production in the various pits that took place at the time. I then as a member of the
Neathborough Council at the time raised the money in conjunction with the Ryan mining. They
financed the program and I can say that the memorial itself when I spoke to Dr Howard
Francis who is the current member of Parliament for Port Talbot. When I spoke to him some time
ago he told me that it is the only one of its kind throughout the British coalfield. It's the
only one of its kind because there are many mining memorials throughout the British coalfield
but for mining disasters not very specific but this one was for specifically for miners who were
killed in local pits and each name is on there and the dates they were killed. And it was from
Resolving point of view we're justly proud because it's the only one of its kind throughout the
kingdom.